--- PÁGINA 1 ---
BREAST
Breast Implant–Associated Anaplastic Large
Cell Lymphoma in Australia and New Zealand:
High-Surface-Area Textured Implants Are
Associated with Increased Risk
Anna Loch-Wilkinson,
Background: The association between breast implants and breast implant–
M.B.B.S.
associated anaplastic large cell lymphoma (ALCL) has been confirmed.
Kenneth J. Beath
Implant-related risk has been difficult to estimate to date due to incomplete
Robert John William
datasets.
Knight, M.B.B.S.
Methods: All cases in Australia and New Zealand were identified and analyzed.
William Louis Fick Wessels,
Textured implants reported in this group were subjected to surface area analysis.
M.B.B.S.
Sales data from three leading breast implant manufacturers (i.e., Mentor, Allergan,
Mark Magnusson, M.B.B.S. and Silimed) dating back to 1999 were secured to estimate implant-specific risk.
Tim Papadopoulos, M.B.B.S. Results: Fifty-five cases of breast implant–associated ALCL were diagnosed in
Tony Connell, B.Sc., M.B.B.S. Australia and New Zealand between 2007 and 2016. The mean age of patients
Julian Lofts, M.B.B.S. was 47.1 years and the mean time of implant exposure was 7.46 years. There
SUPPLEMENTAL DIGITAL CONTENT IS AVAIL-
ABLE IN THE TEXT. Michelle Locke, M.B.B.S., were four deaths in the series related to mass and/or metastatic presentation.
M.D. All patients were exposed to textured implants. Surface area analysis confirmed
Ingrid Hopper, M.B.B.S., that higher surface area was associated with 64 of the 75 implants used (85.3
B.Med.Sci.(Hons.), Ph.D. percent). Biocell salt loss textured (Allergan, Inamed, and McGhan) implants
Rodney Cooter, M.B.B.S., accounted for 58.7 percent of the implants used in this series. Comparative
2017 M.D. analysis showed the risk of developing breast implant–associated ALCL to be
Karen Vickery, B.V.Sc., Ph.D. 14.11 times higher with Biocell textured implants and 10.84 higher with poly-
Preeti Avinash Joshi, urethane (Silimed) textured implants compared with Siltex textured implants.
Conclusions: This study has calculated implant-specific risk of breast implant–
M.B.B.S., D.C.H., Ph.D.
associated ALCL. Higher-surface-area textured implants have been shown to
H. Miles Prince,
significantly increase the risk of breast implant–associated ALCL in Australia
M.B.B.S.(Hons.), M.D.,
and New Zealand. The authors present a unifying hypothesis to explain these
A.F.R.A.C.M.A., M.A.C.D.
observations. (Plast. Reconstr. Surg. 140: 645, 2017.)
Anand K. Deva, B.Sc.(Hons.),
M.B.B.S., M.S.
Disclosure: Professor Deva and Associate Professor
Sydney, New South Wales; and
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia Vickery are consultants and research coordinators for
Mentor (J&J), Allergan, and Acelity. Dr. Magnusson
Breast implant–associated anaplastic large cell is a consultant to Allergan. Dr. Connell is a consultant
lymphoma (ALCL) is a CD30+, ALK−, T-cell– to AirXpanders. The other authors have no financial
derived lymphoma within the non-Hodgkin interest to declare.
Supplemental digital content is available for this
From the Faculty of Medical and Health Sciences, Macquarie
article. Direct URL citations appear in the text;
University; the Joint Breast Implant-Associated ALCL Task
simply type the URL address into any Web browser
Force, American Society of Plastic Surgeons/American Soci-
ety for Aesthetic Plastic Surgery/New Zealand Association of to access this content. Clickable links to the mate-
Plastic Surgeons; the Integrated Specialist Healthcare Edu- rial are provided in the HTML text of this article
cation and Research Foundation; the Australian Breast De- on the Journal’s website (www.PRSJournal.com).
vice Registry, Department of Epidemiology and Preventative
Medicine, Monash University; and the Peter MacCallum
A “Hot Topic Video” by Editor-in-Chief Rod J.
Cancer Center.
Rohrich, M.D., accompanies this article. Go to
Received for publication October 4, 2016; accepted April 3,
PRSJournal.com and click on “Plastic Surgery
2017.
Hot Topics” in the “Digital Media” tab to watch.
Copyright © 2017 by the American Society of Plastic Surgeons
On the iPad, tap on the Hot Topics icon.
DOI: 10.1097/PRS.0000000000003654
www.PRSJournal.com 645
Copyright © 2017 American Society of Plastic Surgeons. Unauthorized reproduction of this article is prohibited.

--- PÁGINA 2 ---
Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery • October 2017
lymphoma group. To date, all patients with breast Table 1. Tumor, Node, Metastasis Staging for Breast
implant–associated ALCL have had prolonged Implant–Associated ALCL*
exposure to textured implants.1,2
TNM or Stage
There have been wide variations in estima-
Designation Description
tion of risk for breast implant–associated ALCL
T: tumor extent
ranging from one in 3,000,0003 to one in 50,0004 T1 Confined to effusion or a layer on
implants. This is because of current limitations luminal side of capsule
T2 Early capsule infiltration
with accurately obtaining implant and clinical his-
T3 Cell aggregates or sheets infiltrating the
tories, variation in pathologic diagnosis, underre- capsule
porting and missed diagnoses, duplication of case T4 Lymphoma infiltrates beyond the capsule
N: Lymph node
entries into registries, and a lack of clear infor-
N0 No lymph node involvement
mation on the total number of implants sold and N1 One regional lymph node (+)
implanted because of commercial sensitivities.5 N2 Multiple regional lymph nodes (++)
M: Metastasis
We sought to bring clarity to the implant-
M0 No distant spread
related risk in our Australian and New Zealand M1 Spread to other organs/distant sites
population. The objectives of this investigation Stage
IA T1N0M0
were as follows:
IB T2N0M0
IC T3N0M0
1. Form a joint Australia and New Zealand IIA T4N0M0
IIB T1-3N1M0
task force to capture all reported cases
III T4N1-2M0
of breast implant–associated ALCL cases IV TanyNanyM1
(numerator). TNM, tumor, node, metastasis.
2. Review and confirm pathologic diagnoses. *From Clemens MW, Medeiros LJ, Butler CE, et al. Complete surgi-
cal excision is essential for the management of patients with breast
3. Lobby industry for release of sales data to
implant-associated anaplastic large-cell lymphoma. J Clin Oncol.
calculate the true risk of breast implant– 2016;34:160–168.
associated ALCL in our population
(denominator).
were blinded to each manufacturer and clinicians
4. Study the association and risk of differ-
and were used by an independent biostatistician
ent textured implant surfaces with breast
[K.J.B. (Macquarie University)] for descriptive,
implant–associated ALCL.
risk, and survival analysis.
PATIENTS AND METHODS Surface Area Determination
The task force engaged with members of the Surface texture of Silimed polyurethane, Bio-
plastic surgery, breast oncology, hematology and cell, Siltex, and smooth implants was visualized
oncology, and cosmetic surgical societies. A pro using a Zeiss LSM 880 inverted Confocal Laser
forma for reporting cases was distributed elec- Scanning Microscope (Carl Zeiss, Oberkochen,
tronically and by mail calling for notification of Germany) and a scanning electron microscope
cases in October of 2015. Human ethics approval using previously published methods.7 Three-
was obtained from Macquarie University. dimensional reconstruction of confocal images
Clinical, operative, and implant details were was performed using Imaris version 8.4, ImarisXT
crosschecked with operative and clinical records (Bitplane, Zurich, Switzerland). The three-dimen-
where available. Pathologic diagnosis was con- sional isosurface area was measured by Imaris
firmed, where required, by secondary review of MeasurementPro (Bitplane).
the pathology slides by an independent patholo-
gist (Stephen Lade, Peter MacCallum Cancer Statistical Analysis
Center). The tumor, node, metastasis staging sys- Data on sales of respective implants were
tem6 was applied (Table 1). obtained on a yearly basis from Allergan, Men-
Patient contact was made to confirm survival tor, and Silimed from 1999 to 2015. For Silimed,
status. The task force engaged the three major the sales of implants did not increase significantly
implant manufacturers in our region [i.e., Men- until after 2008, following Australian regula-
tor Worldwide LLC (Santa Barbara, Calif.); Aller- tory approval. For analysis, this was converted to
gan Sales LLC (Dublin, Ireland); and Silimed, integral years to allow a discrete time analysis,
Inc. (Dallas, Texas)] to release sales data for with analysis restricted to subjects who under-
implants from 1999 to 2015. The raw sales data went implantation during or after 1999 within
646
Copyright © 2017 American Society of Plastic Surgeons. Unauthorized reproduction of this article is prohibited.

--- PÁGINA 3 ---
Volume 140, Number 4 • Breast Implant–Associated ALCL
Australia or New Zealand and who had been Table 3. Number of Implants before Development of
exposed to a single type of texture only. For Sil- Breast Implant–Associated ALCL
imed, we included only Australian cases. We did
No. of Implants No. of Patients (%)
not include smooth implant exposure in our
1 44 (80.0)
analysis. Incidence was calculated using the Pois-
2 6 (10.9)
son distribution and exact confidence intervals. 3 3 (5.5)
The cumulative proportion of subjects with ALCL 5 2 (3.6)
exposed to Biocell and Siltex texture was deter-
mined using the Kaplan-Meier estimate, with
implants was postmastectomy reconstruction for
confidence intervals obtained using a parametric
both cancer and prophylaxis.
bootstrap. Comparison between groups was per-
Eleven patients had multiple implants for revi-
formed using discrete-time survival analysis8 using
sion for rupture, infection, or capsular contrac-
exact-like logistic regression. All calculations were
ture (Table 3). Of the reconstructive patients, 10
performed using the R language9 and packages
had textured tissue expanders used before inser-
boot,10 elrm,11 and epitools.12
tion of the definitive implant.
RESULTS Breast Implant–Associated ALCL Diagnosis,
Presentation, and Pathology
Patient and Implant Characteristics
Table 4 summarizes the clinical presentation
A total of 55 patients were identified between
of breast implant–associated ALCL. Forty-two
2007 and August of 2016. Eleven women had multi-
patients (76.4 percent) presented with unilat-
ple-implant exposure, whereas the remaining 44 had
eral breast swelling caused by seroma (Fig. 1).
single-implant exposure, with a total of 75 implant
(See Video, Supplemental Digital Content 1,
pairs being deployed in this cohort. The mean age
which shows the appearance of breast implant–
of the patients was 47.1 years (range, 22.4 to 69.6
associated ALCL intraoperatively in a patient,
years). The mean time to develop breast implant–
available in the “Related Videos” section of the
associated ALCL from the time of the last implanta-
full-text article on PRSJournal.com or, for Ovid
tion was 7.46 years (range, 0.2 to 27.0 years).
users, available at http://links.lww.com/PRS/
All implant histories were obtained, and the
C360.) In two patients, the seroma was associ-
frequencies of different implant types associated
ated with contralateral capsular contracture.
with the breast implant–associated ALCL–positive
A total of 10 patients (18.2 percent) presented
breasts in these 55 patients are listed in Table 2. All
patients were exposed to textured implants at some with a mass. One patient presented with concur-
point in their implant history. On four occasions, rent metastatic axillary disease. Three patients
smooth implants were used early in these patients’ presented with concurrent seroma and mass
implant histories (implanted before 1999), reflect- (5.5 percent).
ing a change to use of textured implants in the
Australia and New Zealand market. Geographic Location of Implant Insertion
In 38 patients (69.1 percent), the indication Of the total of 75 implants placed into patients
for breast implants was cosmetic augmentation. that developed breast implant–associated ALCL, 65
In the remaining 17 patients, the indication for implants were placed in Australia and eight implants
were placed in New Zealand. In two patients,
Table 2. Frequency of Implant Types Associated with implants were placed outside of Australia and New
Breast Implant–Associated ALCL in This Cohort of Zealand (one in Mexico and one in Thailand).
Patients*
Manufacturer Texture Type No. (%) Table 4. Presentation of Breast Implant–Associated
ALCL (n = 55)
Allergan/Inamed/McGhan Biocell (salt loss) 44 (58.7)
Silimed Polyurethane 14 (18.7) Presentation No. (%)
Nagor Salt loss 5 (6.7)
Surgitek Polyurethane 1 (1.3) Seroma only 42 (76.4)
Mentor Siltex 5 (6.7) Mass only 5 (9.1)
PIP PIP 2 (2.7) Seroma and mass 3 (5.5)
Mentor Smooth 2 (2.7) Seroma and capsular contracture (contralateral) 2 (3.6)
Unknown Smooth 2 (2.7) Mass and capsular contracture (concurrent) 1 (1.8)
Mass with metastatic disease (axilla) 1 (1.8)
PIP, Poly Implant Prothèse.
Incidental finding 1 (1.8)
*n = 75 implants in 55 patients because of reoperation.
647
Copyright © 2017 American Society of Plastic Surgeons. Unauthorized reproduction of this article is prohibited.

--- PÁGINA 4 ---
Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery • October 2017
Pathology, Staging, Treatment, and Survival
All patients underwent total capsulectomy
and removal of implants on both the diseased and
the nondiseased sides. All samples were CD30+
and ALK−.
Thirty-two patients (58.2 percent) had no evi-
dence breast implant–associated ALCL on histo-
pathologic examination of the capsule, indicating
that the disease was confined to the peri-implant
malignant effusion. In three of these patients,
there was an intense associated (benign) lympho-
cytic hyperplasia in the capsule. In a further 10
patients (18.2 percent), tumor cells were seen to
populate the inner lining but did not invade into
the capsule. These patients represent early-stage
disease, and six of them were treated with adjuvant
postoperative chemotherapy early in the series.
The remainder were treated with surgery only.
Twelve patients (21.8 percent) had evidence
of tumor infiltrating the capsule, with associated
mass lesions present in five of these patients. One
patient had tumor deposits within the pectoral
muscle as an incidental finding during revision
surgery. Two of these patients had evidence of
metastatic spread to axillary/mediastinal lymph
nodes on presentation. Table 5 summarizes tumor,
node, metastasis staging6 of patients in this series.
Ten of these 12 patients were treated with
adjuvant chemotherapy and nine of them also
received adjuvant radiation therapy. One patient
was treated with neoadjuvant chemoradiation
therapy before surgery. One patient was treated
with an autologous bone marrow transplant.
Fifty-one patients (92.7 percent) remained
alive, well, and disease-free at the conclusion of
this study. The median disease-free survival for all
alive patients was 2.62 years for this series (range,
0.1 to 8.2 years).
Five patients had local recurrence of dis-
ease treated with adjuvant therapy. Of these, two
patients had positive tumor margins on histopath-
ologic evaluation. Three patients survived and
remain disease free.
Mortality
There were four patient deaths in this series.
One patient presented with a clinical seroma
Fig. 1 (Continued). adjuvant radiotherapy and remains disease
Fig. 1. (Above) Clinical presentation of a patient from our cohort, free at last follow-up. (Second row) Appearance on magnetic res-
a 39-year-old woman presenting with unilateral seroma follow- onance imaging showing large seroma and intact implant shell.
ing cosmetic augmentation 8 years previously. After diagnosis, (Third row) Cytologic image positive for breast implant–associ-
she had bilateral completion capsulectomy showing disease in ated ALCL. (Below) Histologic image of implant capsule showing
the capsule but with no infiltration. She was given postoperative infiltration by breast implant–associated ALCL.
648
Copyright © 2017 American Society of Plastic Surgeons. Unauthorized reproduction of this article is prohibited.

--- PÁGINA 5 ---
Volume 140, Number 4 • Breast Implant–Associated ALCL
Implant-Related Risk
The odds ratio for developing breast implant–
associated ALCL for Biocell implants compared
to Siltex implants was 14.11 (95 percent CI, 1.20
to 561.46; p = 0.0005). The odds ratio for devel-
oping breast implant–associated ALCL for poly-
urethane (Silimed) implants compared to Siltex
implants was 10.84 (95 percent CI, 1.00 to 566.34;
p = 0.05). This shows that the risk of developing
breast implant–associated ALCL was 14.11 times
higher for Biocell and 10.84 times higher with
(Silimed) polyurethane and as compared with Sil-
tex texture.
Survival analysis showed a significant rise in the
Video. Supplemental Digital Content 1 shows the appearance cumulative risk of ALCL for patients with Biocell
of breast implant–associated ALCL intraoperatively in a patient, texture after approximately 8 years of exposure,
available in the “Related Videos” section of the full-text article on reaching a peak at 12 years after implantation
PRSJournal.com or, for Ovid users, available at http://links.lww. (Fig. 2). For Silimed implants, the risk rose sig-
com/PRS/C360. nificantly after 5 years, but further follow-up will
be required to determine the final cumulative
and three others presented with mass and/or incidence.
metastatic disease. Two cases followed cosmetic An estimation of implant-specific risk was cal-
augmentation and two followed cancer recon- culated by using the sales data for Mentor (Siltex),
struction. The mean age was 49.7 years (range, Allergan (Biocell), and Silimed (polyurethane)
44.5 to 58.0 years); three patients had single implants sold over the 1999 to 2015 period. Analy-
Allergan Biocell implants and one had multiple sis of implant-related risk based on total implant
implants (smooth then Allergan Biocell two sales and for patients with single texture exposure
times). The mean time to developing this dis- is shown in Table 6. The highest estimated risk as
ease was 7.35 years. All patients had mass disease expressed as cases of ALCL per number of implan-
extending beyond the capsule on histologic stag- tations was found for Biocell texture at one in
ing. In two of these patients, disease had spread to 3817 (95 percent CI, 2718 to 5545) as compared
lymph nodes (ipsilateral axilla/axilla and medias- with polyurethane at one in 7788 (95 percent CI,
tinum) at the time of presentation. Two patients 3042 to 28,581) and Siltex at one in 60,631 (95
had recurrence (one had incomplete resection percent CI, 10,882 to 2,397,471). The risk for
on histology) after treatment (surgery/adjuvant polyurethane is confounded by a shorter duration
therapy), with subsequent spread to mediastinum of exposure in the Australian and New Zealand
and distant metastases. They died as a result of market compared with the other two textures and
obstructive respiratory failure. Two other patient will need further monitoring and updates. We
deaths were related to complications of adjuvant were unable to calculate risk and surface area for
therapy (sepsis after chemotherapy/bone mar- Nagor implants, as the company has denied access
row transplantation). A multicenter analysis of to sales data and/or implants for the study.
poor outcomes following breast implant–asso-
ciated ALCL presentation and treatment is cur- Surface Area Analysis
rently in progress and will report these cases in Table 7 shows an estimate of surface area for
more detail. implant surfaces for 1 × 1-mm surface block in
Table 5. Tumor, Node, Metastasis Staging of Patients in This Series
Pathologic Findings TNM Stage No. (%) Mortality
BIA-ALCL positive in fluid but negative on capsule T1N0M0 IA 32 (58.2) Nil
BIA-ALCL in fluid and luminal side of capsule T1N0M0 IA 10 (18.2) Nil
BIA-ALCL infiltrating capsule T3N0M0 IC 6 (10.9) Nil
Mass extending beyond capsule T4N0M0 IIA 5 (9.1) 2
Mass with metastatic disease to one lymph node in axilla T4N1M0 III 1 (1.8) 1
Mass with metastatic disease to multiple lymph nodes T4N2M0 III 1 (1.8) 1
TNM, tumor, node, metastasis; BIA, breast implant–associated.
649
Copyright © 2017 American Society of Plastic Surgeons. Unauthorized reproduction of this article is prohibited.

--- PÁGINA 6 ---
Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery • October 2017
Fig. 2. Cumulative proportion of patients with breast implant–associated ALCL per 10,000 implants for
Allergan/McGhan (Biocell) versus Mentor (Siltex) implants. PU, polyurethane.
Table 6. Calculated Implant-Specific Risk of Breast Implant–Associated ALCL per Number of Implants and Rates
per 10,000 Implant Years for Patients Exposed to Single Implant Texture Type*
No. of Implants per Single Rate per 10,000
Implant No. Case of BIA-ALCL Implant-Years
Biocell (Allergan/Inamed/McGhan) 31
Mean 3817 0.39
95% CI 2718–5545 0.27–0.55
Polyurethane (Silimed) 6
Mean 7788 0.31
95% CI 3042–28,581 0.08–0.79
Siltex (Mentor) 1
Mean 60,631 0.028
95% CI 10,882–2,397,471 0.001–0.156
BIA, breast implant–associated.
*Excluding exposure to smooth implants.
Table 7. Topographic Surface Area Analysis for DISCUSSION
Siltex, Biocell, and Polyurethane (Silimed) Textured
This study has provided a detailed clinical and
Implants versus Smooth Implants
implant history of patients with breast implant–
Implant Surface Area (mm2)* associated ALCL in Australia and New Zealand. To
Polyurethane (Silimed) 146.7 date, this represents the most accurate numera-
Biocell 27.9 tor and denominator for risk calculation of breast
Siltex 12.4
implant–associated ALCL in a specific population.
Smooth (Mentor) 1.0
The findings with respect to disease presentation
*For 1 × 1-mm implant surface.
and prognosis mirror findings in the literature.1,2
Two patients with incomplete margins at origi-
square millimeters. The findings showed Silimed nal surgery had local recurrence and one of these
polyurethane to have the highest surface area by patients died, indicating the importance of an
this method of calculation. Figure 3 shows images aggressive, oncologic clearance and assessment by
of the confocal analysis for polyurethane, Biocell, a multidisciplinary team when dealing with this dis-
and Siltex implant surfaces. ease.6 By contrast, we and others13 have confirmed
650
Copyright © 2017 American Society of Plastic Surgeons. Unauthorized reproduction of this article is prohibited.

--- PÁGINA 7 ---
Volume 140, Number 4 • Breast Implant–Associated ALCL
Fig. 3. Two- and three-dimensional images of polyurethane, Biocell, and Siltex implants used for analysis of surface
area. (Above, left) Siltex at 75× magnification. (Above, right) Three-dimensional image of Siltex texture. (Center, left)
Biocell at 75× magnification. (Center, right) Three-dimensional image of Biocell texture. (Below, left) Polyurethane
(Silimed) at 75× magnification. (Below, right) Three-dimensional image of polyurethane (Silimed) texture.
that the mass type carries with it a poorer prog- inflammation from autoimmune and infectious
nosis. There is ongoing debate as to whether the triggers results in overexpression of CD30, recruit-
more indolent seroma type progresses inevitably ment of T cells, and eventual selection of a clone
to the mass type of the disease or whether there with survival advantages and the establishment
are two distinct breast implant–associated ALCL of malignancy.15 This process has a premalignant
entities.14 There are similarities of the seroma lymphoproliferative phase, termed lymphoma-
type with primary cutaneous ALCL.15 In pri- toid papulosis, which can progress into primary
mary cutaneous ALCL, the presence of chronic cutaneous ALCL and regress into lymphomatoid
651
Copyright © 2017 American Society of Plastic Surgeons. Unauthorized reproduction of this article is prohibited.

--- PÁGINA 8 ---
Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery • October 2017
papulosis.15,16 To support this, a recent report by The finding that 85 percent of patients in our
Kadin and Glicksman17 has shown CD30+ clonal series have been exposed to higher-surface-area
expansion in the setting of a late benign seroma. It textures and that these textures carry a higher
may be, in time, that seroma type breast implant– risk of development of breast implant–associ-
associated ALCL is eventually reclassified as an in ated ALCL strengthens the case for bacteria as
situ malignancy or a mixture of in situ malignancy the cause of inflammation. We propose that the
and lymphoproliferation based on closer analysis higher surface area acts as a passive conduit for the
of T-cell populations both in seroma fluid and in growth and proliferation of bacteria, which, once
the capsule. they reach a threshold, cause ongoing immune
A number of hypotheses have been put for- activation and transformation in susceptible hosts
ward to explain the genesis of breast implant– over time. Other observations also point to infec-
associated ALCL. Our findings have shown that tion, including the cluster pattern of incidence,
Biocell (salt loss) and (Silimed) polyurethane with some surgeons having multiple events, which
textures carry a significantly higher risk of devel- could represent an infectious cluster from noso-
comial contamination.
oping breast implant–associated ALCL compared
The implant-related risk in this series has given
with Siltex (imprinted texture). Biomarkers also
surgeons a clear metric with which to base their
provide evidence to show that underlying inflam-
decision-making. There are limitations to the sta-
mation is the likely initiator of this disease.18 As
tistical analysis; in particular, the small number
for the cause of inflammation, the presence of
of cases for Siltex and polyurethane resulting in
chronic bacterial biofilm infection is emerging as
wide confidence intervals, limited information on
the likely culprit.19 It has been shown that textured
deaths by other causes, short-duration follow-up
implants, with their greater surface area, promote
in some cases, reliance on the accuracy of sales
higher levels of bacterial biofilm growth20 and that
data supplied by manufacturers, cluster patterns
this higher bacterial load produces a significant
of incidence skewing the distribution, and the pos-
and linear increase in lymphocyte activation.7
sibility that there are other unidentified cases of
Interestingly, Hu et al.7 found that polyurethane
breast implant–associated ALCL through missed
implants were associated with a significantly
clinical and/or pathologic diagnosis. The pro-
higher level of both bacterial contamination and
pensity, however, of high-surface-area texture to
lymphocyte activation in human contracture. A
generate risks of breast implant–associated ALCL
recent study has confirmed high levels of bacte-
as high as one in 4000 implants should be bal-
ria in breast implant–associated ALCL specimens,
anced against the clinical advantages of the use of
with a detection of a Gram-negative shift in the
textured implants and the need to combine tex-
microbiome as compared with traditional bio-
tured implants with strong and proven strategies
film species detected in capsular contracture.19
to combat bacterial contamination at the time of
The presence of higher levels of Gram-negative
implant deployment. These strategies, reported as
bacteria in breast implant–associated ALCL may
the 14-point plan,21 provide surgeons and patients
explain the pathway to proliferation and transfor-
with the confidence that all is being done to
mation that differs from inflammation and fibro-
reduce the risk of bacterial contamination. Breast
sis, which we see in capsular contracture.
implants are unique in that they are placed into a
Our surface area analysis has confirmed that
contaminated pocket at the start. The aim of anti-
polyurethane (Silimed) and Biocell texture have infective strategies is to reduce the bacterial load
higher surface area compared with Siltex texture. so that biofilm contamination remains below the
There are limitations to the imaging resolution threshold for host response. It is the presence of a
with this method, and further work on the analysis threshold for host response to biofilm that answers
of textured implant surface area and its relation- the commonly asked question that, if the biofilm
ship with bacterial growth is ongoing and will be theory is true, why do textured implants not cause
reported in due course. Furthermore, although higher rates of contracture? If contamination of
the odds ratio and Kaplan-Meier analyses point to implants is kept below this threshold, the cycle of
higher risk for Biocell implants, the implant-spe- biofilm-induced inflammation, contracture, and
cific risk for Silimed polyurethane is impacted by potentially transformation of lymphocytes is thus
the shorter duration of exposure in the Australian avoided.20 High-surface-area implants reduce the
population. Further monitoring of both new cases margin of error, as they provide bacteria with a
and sales data will allow better delineation of this better growth platform, so that anti-infective mea-
risk moving forward. sures become even more critical.
652
Copyright © 2017 American Society of Plastic Surgeons. Unauthorized reproduction of this article is prohibited.

--- PÁGINA 9 ---
Volume 140, Number 4 • Breast Implant–Associated ALCL
We are now in a position to move toward a uni-
Anand K. Deva, B.Sc.(Hons.), M.B.B.S., M.S.
fying hypothesis to explain the observed phenom- Suite 301, 2 Technology Place
ena surrounding breast implant–associated ALCL. Macquarie Park
The contamination of textured implants with a New South Wales 2109, Australia
anand.deva@mq.edu.au
higher surface area by bacteria leading to chronic
antigen stimulation in genetically susceptible hosts
over a prolonged period may result in transforma- ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
tion of T cells into breast implant–associated ALCL.
The authors wish to acknowledge the cooperation of
We believe that the genesis of breast implant–associ-
Mentor, Allergan, and Silimed in providing sales data
ated ALCL is thus multifactorial, as is the case with
for the analysis; Stephen Lade, M.D., for assistance
most carcinogenesis. Recent findings of mutations
with pathologic examination; Helen Hu and Durdana
in the JAK/STAT3 pathway in patients with breast
Chowdhury for assistance with surface area analysis;
implant–associated ALCL have suggested that a
and the Therapeutic Goods Administration for collabo-
deficiency in response to chronic inflammation
ration. Karen Vickery, B.V.Sc., Ph.D., is a recipient of
may also play a role in malignant transformation.22
the Macquarie University DVC innovation fellowship.
Until such time as a credible alternative theory is
proposed based on accumulation of clinical, epide-
miologic, and scientific data, we should focus our REFERENCES
efforts on both disease prevention through modifi-
1. Brody GS, Deapen D, Taylor CR, et al. Anaplastic large
cation of implant choice and combatting contami- cell lymphoma occurring in women with breast implants:
nation of breast implants. A recent article by Adams Analysis of 173 cases. Plast Reconstr Surg. 2015;135:695–705.
et al.23 has shown that application of anti-infec- 2. Miranda RN, Aladily TN, Prince HM, et al. Breast implant-
tive strategies in 42,000 macrotextured implants associated anaplastic large-cell lymphoma: Long-term follow-
up of 60 patients. J Clin Oncol. 2014;32:114–120.
resulted in no recorded cases of breast implant–
3. Ye X, Shokrollahi K, Rozen WM, et al. Anaplastic large cell
associated ALCL. Our findings are consistent with
lymphoma (ALCL) and breast implants: Breaking down the
the importance of mitigating the risk of implant evidence. Mutat Res Rev Mutat Res. 2014;762:123–132.
contamination as a key strategy to reduce the risk of 4. Clemens MW, Miranda RN, Butler CE. Breast implant
subsequent breast implant–associated ALCL. informed consent should include the risk of anaplastic large
cell lymphoma. Plast Reconstr Surg. 2016;137:1117–1122.
Finally, this study raises the possibility of an
5. Clemens MW, Miranda RN. Coming of age: Breast implant-
increasing incidence of breast implant–associated
associated anaplastic large cell lymphoma after 18 years of
ALCL in Australia and New Zealand. Projections investigation. Clin Plast Surg. 2015;42:605–613.
of implant sales show a significant increase in the 6. Clemens MW, Medeiros LJ, Butler CE, et al. Complete surgi-
use of high-surface-area textured devices in the cal excision is essential for the management of patients with
breast implant-associated anaplastic large-cell lymphoma. J
past 5 years. As the mean time for development of
Clin Oncol. 2016;34:160–168.
this disease is approximately 8 years, it is of some
7. Hu H, Jacombs A, Vickery K, Merten SL, Pennington DG,
concern that we are in store for a rise in breast
Deva AK. Chronic biofilm infection in breast implants is
implant–associated ALCL in our population. As associated with an increased T-cell lymphocytic infiltrate:
a response, we have engaged with government Implications for breast implant-associated lymphoma. Plast
and regulatory authorities and plan to mature the Reconstr Surg. 2015;135:319–329.
8. Singer J, Willett J. Applied Longitudinal Data Analysis: Modeling
Australian Breast Device Registry to monitor and
Change and Event Occurrence. New York: Oxford University
respond to this eventuality.
Press; 2003.
9. boot: Bootstrap R (S-plus) Functions (computer program). 2016.
10. R Core Team. R: A language and environment for statisti-
CONCLUSIONS
cal computing. Vienna, Austria: R Foundation for Statistical
Our joint task force has captured 55 cases of Computing; 2016. Available at: http://www.R-project.org/.
breast implant–associated ALCL in Australia and Accessed August 28, 2016.
11. Zamar D, McNeney B, Graham J. erlm: Software implement-
New Zealand diagnosed since 2007. The availabil-
ing exact-like inference for logistic regression models. J Stat
ity of an accurate numerator (number of cases/
Software 2007;21:1–18.
implant type) and denominator (sales data) has 12. Aragon TJ. Epidemiology Tools, 2012. Available at: https://
shown a higher risk for high-surface-area textured CRAN.R-project.org/package=epitools. Accessed August 28,
implants. A unifying hypothesis where texture 2016.
surface area, bacterial contamination, and patient 13. Estes CF, Zhang D, Reyes R, Korentager R, McGinness M,
Lominska C. Locally advanced breast implant-associated
genetic susceptibility interact over time to pro-
anaplastic large-cell lymphoma: A case report of successful
duce T-cell transformation may provide an expla-
treatment with radiation and chemotherapy. Front Oncol.
nation for these observations. 2015;5:26.
653
Copyright © 2017 American Society of Plastic Surgeons. Unauthorized reproduction of this article is prohibited.

--- PÁGINA 10 ---
Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery • October 2017
14. Prince HM, Johnstone R. Commentary on: Biomarkers 19. Hu H, Johani K, Almatroudi A, et al. Bacterial biofilm infec-
provide clues to early events in the pathogenesis of breast tion detected in breast implant-associated anaplastic large-
implant-associated anaplastic large cell lymphoma. Aesthet cell lymphoma. Plast Reconstr Surg. 2016;137:1659–1669.
Surg J. 2016;36:782–783. 20. Jacombs A, Tahir S, Hu H, et al. In vitro and in vivo investiga-
15. Story SK, Schowalter MK, Geskin LJ. Breast implant-associ- tion of the influence of implant surface on the formation of
ated ALCL: A unique entity in the spectrum of CD30+ lym- bacterial biofilm in mammary implants. Plast Reconstr Surg.
phoproliferative disorders. Oncologist 2013;18:301–307. 2014;133:471e–480e.
16. Davis TH, Morton CC, Miller-Cassman R, Balk SP, Kadin ME. 21. Deva AK, Adams WP Jr, Vickery K. The role of bacterial
Hodgkin’s disease, lymphomatoid papulosis, and cutaneous biofilms in device-associated infection. Plast Reconstr Surg.
T-cell lymphoma derived from a common T-cell clone. N 2013;132:1319–1328.
Engl J Med. 1992;326:1115–1122. 22. Blombery P, Thompson E, Jones K, et al. Whole exome
17. Kadin ME, Glicksman C. CD30+ T cells in late seroma may sequencing reveals activating JAK1 and STAT3 mutations in
not be diagnostic of breast implant-associated anaplastic breast-implant associated anaplastic large cell lymphoma.
large cell lymphoma. Aesthet Surg J. 2017;37:771–775. Haematologica 2016;101:e387–e390.
18. Kadin ME, Deva A, Xu H, et al. Biomarkers provide clues 23. Adams WP Jr, Culbertson EJ, Deva A, et al. Macrotextured
to early events in the pathogenesis of breast implant- breast implants with defined steps to minimize bacteria
associated anaplastic large cell lymphoma. Aesthet Surg J. contamination around the device: Experience in 42,000
2016;36:773–781. implants. Plast Reconstr Surg. (in press).
654
Copyright © 2017 American Society of Plastic Surgeons. Unauthorized reproduction of this article is prohibited.